.TH S9S-CLUSTER 1 "August 29, 2016"

.SH NAME
s9s-cluster \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-cluster
.RI [OPTION]...
.RI [CLUSTER_NAME]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.\"
.\" Main options 
.\"
.TP
.B --add-node
Adds a new node (server) to the cluster or to be more precise creates a new
job that will eventually add a new node to the cluster. The name (or IP 
address) of the node should be specified using the \fB\-\-nodes\fR command 
line option.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --add-node \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --nodes=192.168.0.202 \\
    --wait
.fi 

.TP
.B --change-config
This option can be used to change the configuration values for the cluster. The
cluster configuration in this context is the Cmon Controller's configuration for
the given cluster.

.B
.nf
mys9s cluster \\
    --change-config \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --cmon-user="system" \\
    --password="secret" \\
    --opt-name="host_stats_collection_interval" \\
    --opt-value="120"
.fi

.TP
.B --check-hosts 
This option can be used to check the hosts before creating a new cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --check-hosts \\
    --nodes=192.168.0.102 \\
    --print-json
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-collect\-logs
This option will create a job that will collect the log files from the nodes of
the cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --collect-logs \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --log
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-create\-account
Create a new account to be used on the cluster to access the database(s).
Creating accounts is also possible using the \fBaccount\fP mode, check
s9s-account(1) for further details.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --create-account \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --account=john_doe:password@192.168.0.127 \\
    --with-database 
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-create
Create a new cluster. When this command line option is provided the program
will contact the controller and register a new job that will eventually create
a new cluster. 

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --create \\
    --cluster-type=mysqlreplication \\
    --nodes="192.168.0.84?master;192.168.0.151?slave" \\
    --vendor=percona \\
    --cluster-name=ft_replication_11130 \\
    --provider-version=5.6 \\
    --wait
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-create-database
Create a new database on the cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
mys9s cluster \\
    --create-database \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --db-name="testDatabase" \\
    --batch
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-create-database
Upgrade cluster packages.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
mys9s cluster \\
    --upgrade-cluster \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --nodes="192.168.0.84:5433;192.168.0.85" \\
    --wait
.fi

.TP
.B --create-report
When this command line option is provided a new job will be started that will
create an error-report. After the job is executed the error-report will be
available on the controller. If the \fB\-\-output-dir\fP command line option
is provided the report will be created in the given directory on the
controller host.

To mask out all the passwords (with xxxxx) from the generated report, it is
possible to specify \fB\-\-mask-passwords\fP command line option,
or \fBmask_password\fP=true in the s9s configuration file.

.TP
.B --delete-account
Delete an existing account from the cluster. Deleting accounts is also 
possible using the \fBaccount\fP mode, check s9s-account(1) for further details.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --delete-account \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --account=tmpaccount@192.168.0.127
.fi

.TP 
.B --disable-recovery
This command line option will create a new job that will disable the
autorecovery for the cluster (both cluster autorecovery and node autorecovery).
The job can optionally be used to also register a maintenance period for the
cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --disable-recovery \\
    --log \\
    --cluster-id="1" \\
    --maintenance-minutes="60" \\
    --reason="testRecoveryJob" 
.fi


.TP
.B --drop
Removes the cluster from the Cmon controller. The cluster remains operational,
but the controller will no longer manage or monitor it.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --drop \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --wait 
.fi

.TP 
.B --enable-recovery
Creates a job that will enable the autorecovery for both the cluster and the
nodes in the cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --enable-recovery \\
    --log \\
    --cluster-id="1" 
.fi

.TP
.B --import-config
Creates a job that will import all the logfiles from the nodes of the cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --import-config \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --log
.fi

.TP
.B --list-config
This command line option can be used to print the configuration values for the
cluster. The cluster configuration in this context is the Cmon Controller's
configuration for the given cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
    mys9s cluster \\
        --list-config \\
        --cluster-id=1 \\
        --long \\
        '*stats*'
.fi

.TP
.B --list-databases
List the databases found on the cluster. Please note that if the cluster has a
lot of databases this option might not show some of them. Sampling a huge number
of databases would generate high load and so the controller has an upper limit
built into it.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --list-database \\
    --long \\
    --cluster-id=1 
.fi

.TP
.B \-L, \-\-list
List the clusters managed by the controller.

.B
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    ft_*
.fi

.TP
.B --ping
Check the connection to the controller. This will send a request to the
controller, the controller will check that he cluster exists and reply a message
with some information about the cluster and the controller. Then the s9s program
will calculate the message turnaround time and print it. The \fB--wait\fP option
can be used to set the pinging into continuous mode.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --ping \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --wait
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-promote\-slave
Promote a slave node to become a master. This main option will of course work
only on clusters where it is meaningful, where there are slaves and masters are
possible.

.B EXAMPLE:
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --promote-slave \\
    --nodes=192.168.0.151 \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --log
.fi

.TP 
.B \-\-register
Registers an existing cluster in the controller. This option is very similar to
the \fB\-\^\-create\fR option, but it of course will not install a new cluster,
it just registers one in the controller. Use this to start managing
pre-installed clusters with the Cmon Controller.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --register \\
    --cluster-type=galera \\
    --nodes=192.168.0.196 \\
    --vendor=percona \\
    --cluster-name=my_cluster_32265 \\
    --wait
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-remove\-node 
Removes a node from the cluster (creates a new job that will remove the node
from the cluster). The name (or IP address) of the node should be specified 
using the \fB\-\-nodes\fR command line option.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --remove-node \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --nodes=192.168.0.245:9600 \\
    --wait
.fi

.TP
.B --rolling-restart
Restart all nodes of the cluster by keeping the cluster alive. This command 
line option will create a job that will restart all the nodes.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --rolling-restart \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --wait 
.fi

.TP
.B --set-read-only
This option will create a job that when executed will set the entire cluster
into read-only mode. Please note that not every cluster type supports the
read-only mode.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --set-read-only \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --debug \\
    --log
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-start
Creates a new job to start the cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --start \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --wait 
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-stat
Print the details of one or more clusters.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --stat \\
    cluster_*
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-stop
Creates and registers and a new job that will stop the cluster when executed.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --stop \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --wait 
.fi

.\"
.\" Generic options
.\"
.SS Generic Options

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " [\fIPROT\fP://]\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" [\fIPROT\fP://]\\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname (e.g. --controller="https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.B \-l, \-\-long
This option is similar to the -l option for the standard ls UNIX utility
program. If the program creates a list of objects this option will change its
format to show more details.

.TP
.B --print-json
The JSON strings will be printed while communicating with the controller. This 
option is for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.TP
.B \-\-batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-output-dir= DIRECTORY
The directory where the output file(s) will be created.

.\"
.\" Options Related to Newly Created Jobs
.\"
.SS Options Related to Newly Created Jobs
Commands that create a new job will also accept command line options related to
the job. Please check the cmon-job(1) man page for information about the options
related to newly created jobs.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Other Options

.TP \-\^\-account= NAME[:PASSWD][@HOST]
An SQL account with optional password and hostname. This command line argument
is used when a new account is created.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-cloud= PROVIDER
This option can be used when new container(s) created. The name of the cloud
provider where the new container will be created. 

This command line option can also be used to filter the list of the containers
when used together with one of the \fB\-\-list\fP or \fB\-\-stat\fP options.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-containers= LIST
A list of containers to be created and used by the created job. This command
line option can be used to create container (virtual machines) and then install
clusters on them or just add them to an existing cluster as nodes. Please check 
s9s-container(1) for further details.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-credential\-id= ID
The cloud credential ID that should be used when creating a new container. This
is an optional value, if not provided the controller will find the credential to
be used by the cloud name and the chosen region.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-firewalls= LIST
List of firewall (AKA security groups) IDs separated by ',' or ';' to be used
for newly created containers. Please check s9s-container(1) for further 
details.

.TP
.BI \-i " INTEGER" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster-id=" INTEGER
If the operation related to an existing cluster this option can be used to
control which cluster will be manipulated. If the operation creates a new
cluster the cluster ID is assigned automatically, so this option can't be used.

.TP
.BI \-n " NAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster-name=" NAME
Sets the cluster name. If the operation creates a new cluster this will be the
name of the new cluster. (Usage of this option for selecting an existing cluster
is not yet implemented.)

.TP
.BI \-\^\-image= NAME
The name of the image from which the new container will be created. This option
is not mandatory, when a new container is created the controller can choose an
image if it is needed. 

To find out what images are supported by the registered container severs please
issue the \fBs9s server \-\^\-list\-images\fP command.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-image\-os\-user= NAME
The name of the initial OS user defined in the image for the first login. Use
this option to create containers based on custom images.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-nodes= NODELIST
The list of nodes or hosts enumerated in a special string using a semicolon as
field separator (e.g. "192.168.1.1;192.168.1.2"). 
The strings in the node list are urls that can have the following protocols:

.RS 7
.TP
.B mysql:// 
The protocol for MySql servers. Use this string to specify MySql servers.
.TP
.B ndbd://
Someone has to write this part.
.TP
.B ndb_mgmd://
Someone has to write this part. The mgmd:// notation is also accepted.
.TP
.B haproxy://
Used to create and manipulate HaProxy servers.
.TP
.B pgbouncer://
Used to create and manipulate PgBouncer servers.
.TP
.B proxysql://
Use this to install and handle ProxySql servers.
.TP
.B maxscale://
The protocol to install and handle MaxScale servers.
.TP
.B mongos://
The protocol to install and handle mongo router servers.
.TP
.B mongocfg://
The protocol to install and handle mongo config servers.
.TP
.B mongodb://
The protocol to install and handle mongo data servers.
.RE

.TP
.BI \-\^\-no\-install
Skip the cluster software installation part. Assume all software is installed on
the node(s). This command line option is considered when installing a new
cluster or adding a new node to an existing cluster.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-os\-key\-file= PATH
The path of the SSH key to install on a new container to allow the user to log
in. This command line option can be passed when a new container is created, the
argument of the option should be the path of the \fBprivate\fP key stored on the
controller. Although the path of the private key file is passed only the public
key will be uploaded to the new container.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-os\-password= PASSWORD
This command line option can be passed when creating new containers to set the 
password for the user that will be created on the container. Please note that
some virtualization backend might not support passwords, only keys.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-os\-user= USERNAME
This option may be used when creating new containers to pass the name of the
user that will be created on the new container. Please note that this optin is
not mandatory, because the controller will create an account whose name is the
same as the name of the cmon user creating the container. The public key of the
cmon user will also be registered (if the user has an associated public key) so
the user can actually log in.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-subnet\-id= ID
This option can be used when new containers are created to set the subnet ID
for the container.

To find out what subnets are supported by the registered container severs please
issue the \fBs9s server \-\^\-list\-subnets\fP command.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-template= NAME 
The name of the container template. Defining a template is an easy way to set a
number of complex propeties without actually enumerating them in the command
line one by one. 

The actual interpretation of the template name is up to the virtualization
backend that is the protocol of the container server. The \fBlxc\fP backend for
example considers the template to be an already created container, it simply
creates the new container by copying the template container so the new container
inherits everything.

The template name can also be provided as a property name for the container, so
the command \fBs9s container \-\-create 
\-\-containers="node02?template=ubuntu;node03" \-\-log\fP for example will
create two containers, one using a template, the other using the default
settings.

Please note that the \fB\-\-template\fP command line option is not mandatory, if
emitted suitable default values will be chosen, but if the template is provided
and the template is not found the creation of the new container will fail.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-use\-internal\-repos
Use internal repositories when installing software packages. Using this command
line option it is possible to deploy clusters and add nodes off-line, without a
working internet connection. The internal repositories has to be set up in
advance.

This option can also be set in the s9s configuration file using the 
\fBuse_internal_repos\fP keyword (check s9s.conf(5) for further details).

.TP
.BI \-\^\-volumes= LIST
When a new container is created this command line option can be used to pass a
list of volumes that will be created for the container. 

The list can contain one or more volumes separated by the ';' character. Every
volume consists three properties separated by the ':' character, a volume name,
the volume size in gigabytes and a volume type that is either "hdd" or "ssd".
The string \fB"vol1:5:hdd;vol2:10:hdd"\fP for example defines two hard-disk
columes, one 5GByte and one 10GByte.

For convenience the volume name and the type can be omitted, so that
automatically generated volume names are used.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-vpc\-id= ID
This option can be used when new containers are created to set the vpc ID
for the container.

To find out what VPCs are supported by the registered container severs please
issue the \fBs9s server \-\^\-list\-subnets --long\fP command.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-vendor= VENDOR
The name of the vendor to be installed.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-provider-version= VERSION
The version string of the software to be installed. 

.TP
.BI \-\^\-remote-cluster-id= ID
The remote cluster ID for the cluster creation when cluster-to-cluster
replication is to be installed. Please note that not all the cluster types
support cluster to cluster replication.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-os-user= USERNAME
The name of the remote user that is used to gain SSH access on the remote nodes.
If this command line option is omitted the name of the local user will be used
on the remote hosts too.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-cluster-type= TYPENAME
The name of the cluster type to be installed. Currently the following types are
supported: \fBgalera\fP, \fBmysqlreplication\fP, \fBgroupreplication\fP (or 
\fBgroup_replication\fP), \fBndb\fP (or \fBndbcluster\fP) and \fBpostgresql\fP.

.TP
.BI --config-template= FILENAME
Use the specified file as configuration template to create the configuration
file for the new cluster. Please note, that the \fB\-\^\-template\fP option is
for the containers (virtual machines) of the nodes and has completely different
meaning.

.TP
.BI --datadir= DIRECTORY
The directory on the node(s) that will hold the data. The primary use for this
command line option is to set the data directory path when a cluster is created.

.TP
.BI --donor= ADDRESS
Currently this option is used when starting a cluster. It can be used to control
which node will be started first and used for the others as donor.

.TP
.BI --generate\-key 
Create a new SSH keypair when creating new containers. If this command line
option was provided a new SSH keypair will be created and registered for a new
user account to provide SSH access to the new container(s). If the command
creates more than one containers the same one keypair will be registered for
all.

The username will be the username of the authenticated cmon-user. This can be
overruled by the \fB\-\-os\-user\fP command line option.

When the job creates a new cluster the generated keypair will be registered for
the cluster and the file path will be saved into the cluster's Cmon
configuration file. When adding a node to such a cluster this
\fB\-\-generate\-key\fP option should not be passed, the controller will
automatically re-use the previously created keypair.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-cluster\-format [ =\fIFORMATSTRING\fP "]
The string that controls the format of the printed information about clusters.
When this command line option is used the specified information will be printed
instead of the default columns. The format string uses the '%' character to mark
variable fields and flag characters as they are specified in the standard
printf() C library functions. The '%' specifiers are ended by field name letters
to refer to various properties of the clusters.

The "%+12I" format string for example has the "+12" flag characters in it with
the standard meaning: the field will be 12 character wide and the "+" or "-"
sign will always be printed with the number. 

The properties of the message are encoded by letters. The in the "%-5I" for
example the letter "I" encodes the "cluster ID" field, so the numerical ID of
the cluster will be substituted. 

Standard '\\' notation is also available, \\n for example encodes a new-line 
character.

The s9s-tools support the following fields:

.RS 7
.TP
.B a
The number of active alarms on the cluster.

.TP 
.B C
The configuration file for the cluster.

.TP
.B c
The total number of CPU cores in the cluster. Please note that this number may
be affected by hyper-threading. When a computer has 2 identical CPUs, with four
cores each and uses 2x hyperthreading it will count as 2x4x2 = 16.

.TP 
.B D
The domain name of the controller of the cluster. This is the string one would
get if executed the "domainname" command on the controller host.

.TP
.B G
The name of the group owner of the cluster. 

.TP 
.B H
The host name of the controller of the cluster. This is the string one would get
if executed the "hostname" command on the controller host.

.TP
.B h
The number of the hosts in the cluster including the controller itself.

.TP
.B I
The numerical ID of the cluster.

.TP
.B i
The total number of monitored disk devices (partitions) in the cluster.

.TP
.B k
The total number of disk bytes found on the monitored devices in the cluster.
This is a double precision floating point number measured in Terabytes. With 
the 'f' modifier (e.g. "%6.2fk") this will report the free disk space in
TeraBytes.

.TP 
.B L
The log file of the cluster.

.TP
.B M
A human readable short message that discribes the state of the cluster.

.TP
.B m
The size of memory of all the hosts in the cluster added together, measured in
GBytes. This value is represented by a double precision floating pointer number,
so formatting it with precision (e.g. "%6.2m") is possible.

When used with the 'f' modifier (e.g. "%6.2fm") this reports the free memory,
the memory that available for allocation, used for cache or used for buffers.

.TP
.B N
The name of the cluster.

.TP
.B n
The total number of monitored network interfaces in the cluster.

.TP
.B O
The name of the owner of the cluster.

.TP
.B P
The CDT path of the cluster.

.TP
.B S
The state of the cluster.

.TP
.B T 
The type of the cluster.

.TP
.B t
The total network traffic (both received and transmitted) measured in
MBytes/seconds found in the cluster.

.TP
.B V
The vendor and the version of the main software (e.g. the SQL server) on the
node.

.TP
.B U
The number of physical CPUs on the host.

.TP
.B u
The CPU usage percent found on the cluster.

.TP
.B w
The total swap space found in the cluster measured in GigaBytes. With the 'f'
modifier (e.g. "%6.2fk") this reports the free swap space in GigaBytes.

.TP
.B %
The '%' character itself. 

.RE

.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BI \-\^\-db\-admin= USERNAME
The user name of the database administrator (e.g. 'root').

.TP
.BI \-\^\-db-admin-passwd= PASSWORD
The password of the datanase administrator. Passing the password through the
command line is a security risk, so I will add other ways to store the password
soon.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-backup-id= NUMBER
The id of a backup to be restored on the created cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster \\
    --create \\
    --cluster-type=postgresql \\
    --nodes="192.168.0.84?master;192.168.0.151?slave" \\
    --vendor=postgre \\
    --cluster-name=postgre_test \\
    --provider-version=9.6 \\
    --wait \\
    --backup-id=214
.fi

.TP 
.BI --without-tags= LIST
When listing the existing clusters this option can be used to limit the list of
clusters for those that has none of the enlisted tags set. 

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cluster --list --long --without-tags="myTag;atCreate"
s9s cluster --stat --without-tags=myTag
.fi

.TP
.BI --with-tags= LIST
When printing the list of clusters this option can be used to limit the list of
clusters to those that have at least one of the given tags. When creating a new
cluster this option can be used to set tags for the newly created cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
 s9s cluster \\
    --create \\
    --job-tags="createCluster" \\
    --cluster-type="postgresql" \\
    --nodes="192.168.0.227:8089;" \\
    --cluster-name="ft_postgresqlsimple_21475" \\
    --db-admin="postmaster" \\
    --db-admin-passwd="passwd12" \\
    --provider-version="9.6" \\
    --with-tags="atCreate;myTag" \\
    --wait 
.fi

.TP
.B --with-timescaledb
Install the TimescaleDB option when creating a new cluster. This is currently
only supported on PostgreSQL systems.



\"
\"
\"
.SH LOAD BALANCER OPTIONS
The following command line options are closely related to load balancers. Please
note that the controller may not interpret all these options for all the load
balancer types.

Please note that these command line optins are not mandatory, all settings have
proper default values.

.TP
.BI --admin-password= PASSWORD
The password for the administrator of load balancers.

.TP
.BI --admin-user= USERNAME
The username for the administrator of load balancers. 

.TP
.B --dont-import-accounts
If this option is provided the database accounts will not be imported after the
loadbalancer is installed and added to the cluster. The accounts can be imported
later, but it is not going to be the part of the load balancer installation
performed by the controller.

.TP
.BI --haproxy-config-template= FILENAME
Configuration template for the HaProxy installation.

.TP
.BI --monitor-password= PASSWORD
The password of the monitoring user of the load balancer.

.TP
.BI --monitor-user= USERNAME
The username of the monitoring user of the load balancer.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH CLUSTER LIST
Using the \fB\-\-list\fP and \fB\-\-long\fP command line options a detailed list
of the clusters can be printed. Here is an example of such a list:

.nf
# \fBs9s cluster --list --long\fP
ID STATE   TYPE        OWNER GROUP NAME     COMMENT
 1 STARTED replication pipas users mysqlrep All nodes are operational.
Total: 1

.fi

The list contains the following fields:
.RS 5
.TP
.B ID
The cluster ID of the given cluster.
.TP
.B STATE
A short string describing the state of the cluster. Possible values are 
MGMD_NO_CONTACT, STARTED, NOT_STARTED, DEGRADED, FAILURE, SHUTTING_DOWN,
RECOVERING, STARTING, UNKNOWN, STOPPED.
.TP
.B TYPE
The type of the cluster. Possible values are mysqlcluster, replication, 
galera, group_repl, mongodb, mysql_single, postgresql_single.
.TP
.B OWNER
The user name of the owner of the cluster.
.TP
.B GROUP
The group owner's name.
.TP
.B NAME 
The name of the cluster.
.TP
.B COMMENT
A short human readable description of the current state of the cluster.

.\"
.\" The environment variables.
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The s9s application will read and consider a number of environment variables.
Please check s9s(1) for more information.

