.TH S9S-CLOUD-CREDENTIALS1 "September 12, 2024"

.SH NAME
s9s-cloud-credentials \- Command-line client for the Severalnines ClusterControl server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-cloud-credentials
.RI [OPTION]... 
.RI [PATH]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s-cloud-credentials\fP is a command-line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to 
perform CRUD operations on stored cloud credentials supported by ClusterControl.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what operation
should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the following:

.TP
.B --list
Gets the list of creadted cloud credentials.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cloud-credentials --list
ID      NAME     PROVIDER    REGION     COMMENT     ENDPOINT
2       alvaro1  aws         us-west-1  test
3       minioc   minio       us-east-1  test_minio  10.8.9.221:9000
.fi


.TP
.B --create
Create a cloud credential and stores it on CC

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cloud-credentials --create --name=alvaro1 --cloud-provider=aws --s3-region=us-west-1 \
                      --comment=test --s3-access-key-id=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE \
                      --s3-secret-key=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
created.

s9s cloud-credentials --create --name=alvaro1 --cloud-provider=s3 --s3-region=us-west-1 \
                      --comment=test --s3-access-key-id=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE \
                      --s3-secret-key=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY \
                      --endpoint=192.168.1.40:9000
created.
.fi


.\"
.\" Arguments related to create operation
.\"
.SS Arguments related to create operation
IMPORTANT: As this command is used to store sensitive information, it is recommended to use initial ' ' to avoid storing command on history.
The create operation has some optional and mandatory arguments that must be used to create a cloud credential.
Let's differenciate them starting with the mandatory ones:

.TP
.BI \-\^\-name=CREDENTIALS_UNIQUE_NAME
Internal name of the cloud credential. It must be unique.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-provider=CLOUD_PROVIDER
The cloud provider. The possible values are: 
  - s3: S3 compatible storage provider
  - aws: Amazon Web Services
Suuported by ClusterControl but to be added on s9s cloud-credentials: azure & gcp

.TP
.BI \-\^\-s3\-region=REGION_STRING (mandatory for aws & s3 providers)
The string to identify region as it is identified on cloud provider.
 
.TP
.BI \-\^\-s3\-access\-key\-id=ACCESS_KEY_ID_VALUE (mandatory for aws & s3 providers)
The string identifying access key id as on cloud provider.


.TP
.BI \-\^\-s3\-secret\-access\-key=SECRET_ACCESS_KEY_VALUE (mandatory for aws & s3 providers)
The string identifying secret access key as on cloud provider.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-endpoint=URL_TO_ENDPOINT (mandatory for s3 provider)
The string after http(s):// that identifies the endpoint to be used.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-comment=COMMENT_STRING (optional)
A comment to be associated with the cloud credential for better identification.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-use-ssl (optional for s3 provider)
When set, the connection will be made using SSL.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-insecure-ssl (optional for s3 provider)
When set, the connection will be made using passwordless SSL.


.TP
.B --delete
Delete a cloud credential stores on CC

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s cloud-credentials --delete --id=1 --cloud-provider=aws
deleted.
.fi


.\"
.\" Arguments related to delete operations
.\"
.tp
.bi \-\^\-id=cc_credentials_id
The credential id used on clustercontrol to identify the cloud credential as shown on the list operation.

.tp
.bi \-\^\-cloud\-provider=CLOUD_PROVIDER
The cloud provider to which credential to be deleted belongs to.