.TH S9S-JOB 1 "August 29, 2016"

.SH NAME
s9s_job \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-log
.RI [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to deploy
and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B \-L, \-\-list
List the log entries.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS General Options

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " \fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" \fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The port is also accepted as part of the
hostname.

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .
.TP

.TP
.B \-\-batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-date\-format= FORMATSTRING
Controls what format the dates and times will be printed. Formats strings
accepted as specified in the strftime(3) man page.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Cluster Related Options

.TP
.BI \-i " INTEGER" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster\-id=" INTEGER
Controls which cluster to check.

.TP
.BI \-n " NAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster-name=" NAME
Controls which cluster to check.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Log Related Options

.TP
.BR \-\^\-from= \fIDATE&TIME\fP
Controls the start time of the period that will be printed in the log list.

.TP
.BR --limit= \fINUMBER\fP
Limits the number of logs messages printed.

.TP
.BI --message-id= ID
The numerical ID for the message to list. When this command line option is
provided there will be at most one message processed.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-log\-format= \fIFORMATSTRING\fP
Controls the format of the messages as they are printed. This command line
option has the same effect as the "brief_log_format" and "long_log_format" 
configuration variables.

The
format string uses the '%' character to mark variable fields, flag characters as
they are specified in the standard printf() C library functions and its own
field name letters to refer to the various properties of the messages. 

The "%+12I" format string for example has the "+12" flag characters in it with
the standard meaning: the field will be 12 character wide and the "+" or "-"
sign will always be printed with the number.

Standard '\\' notation is also available, \\n for example encodes a new-line 
character.

The properties of the message are encoded by letters. The in the "%-5L" for
example the letter "L" encodes the "line-number" field, so the number of the
source line that produced the message will be substituted. The program supports
the following fields:

.RS 7
.TP
.B B
The base name of the source file that produced the message. 

.TP
.B c
The \fB"log_class"\fP property of the log message. All the log messages are of
the same class (\fBCmonLogMessage\fP), the \fB"log_class"\fP however shows what
extra information is held by the message, what kind of event triggered the
creation of the given log message.

.TP
.B C
The creation date&time that marks the exact moment when the message was
created. The format of the date&time sustituted can be set using the 
\fB\-\^\-date\-format\fP command line option.

.TP
.B F
The name of the source file that created the message. This is similar to the
\fBB\fR fields, but instead of the base name the entire file name will be
substituted.

.TP
.B h
The host name of the host that is related to the log message. Please note that
not all log entries are related to one specific host.

.TP
.B i
The cluster ID. If the log message is not related to any clusters the ID here
will be 0. 

.TP
.B I
The ID of the message, a numerical ID that can be used as a unique identifier
for the message.

.TP
.B J
The Job ID if the message has a job ID.

.TP
.B j
The entire message object as a JSon string.

.TP
.B L
The line number in the source file where the message was created. This property
is implemented mostly for debugging purposes.

.TP
.B M
The message text.

.TP
.B S 
The severity of the message in text format. This field can be "MESSAGE",
"WARNING" or "FAILURE".

.TP
.B T
The creation time of the message. This is similar to the \fBC\fR field, but
shows only hours, minutes and seconds instead of the full date and time.

.TP
.B %
The '%' character itself. 

.RE 

Moreover the format string can contain expression \fB${...}\fR that refer the
properties of the log entry. For example the expression
\fB${/log_specifics/job_instance}\fR will be substituted by the value of the
given property converted into a string. Please note that various messages have
different properties. The \fB"log_class"\fR property (denoted by \fB"%c"\fR or
\fB${/log_class}\fR in the format string) can be used to identify what
properties can be expected.

.B EXAMPLE

The following example prints a log message that is about a Cmon Job being
started. It prints some information with the '%' notation and the job JSon
string that is part of the log entry:

.nf
# s9s log \\
    --list \\
    --message-id=23 \\
    --log-format='   ID: %I\\nclass: %c\\n  loc: %B:%L\\n mess: %M\\n job:\\n${/log_specifics/job_instance/job_spec}\\n'

   ID: 23
class: JobStarted
  loc: CmonCommandHandlerWorker.cpp:332
 mess: Job 'Create Cluster' just started.
 job:
{
    "command": "create_cluster",
    "job_data": 
    {
        "cluster_name": "ft_postgresql_8488",
        "cluster_type": "postgresql_single",
        "enable_uninstall": true,
        "install_software": true,
        "nodes": [ 
        {
            "class_name": "CmonHost",
            "hostname": "192.168.0.76",
            "port": 8089
        } ],
        "postgre_user": "postmaster",
        "ssh_user": "pipas",
        "sudo_password": "",
        "type": "postgresql",
        "version": "10"
    }
}
.fi

.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR \-\^\-offset= \fINUMBER\fP
Controls the relative index of the first item printed.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BR \-\^\-until= \fIDATE&TIME\fP
Controls the end time of the period that will be printed in the log list.


.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The s9s application will read and consider a number of environment variables.
Please check s9s(1) for more information.

.\" 
.\" The examples. The are very helpful for people just started to use the
.\" application.
.\" 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
The next example can be used to view the log messages for a given cluster:

.nf
# \fBs9s log \\
    --list \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --long \fR
.fi

