.TH S9S-METATYPE 1 "August 29, 2016"

.SH NAME
s9s-metatype \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-metatype
.RI [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-L, \-\-list
List the names of the types the controller supports. 

.TP
.B \-\-list\-properties
List the properties the given metatype has. Use the \fP\-\-type\fR command line
option to pass the name of the metatype.

.SS Generic Options

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " [\fIPROT\fP://]\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" [\fIPROT\fP://]\\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname (e.g. --controller="https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.B \-l, \-\-long
This option is similar to the -l option for the standard ls UNIX utility
program. If the program creates a list of objects this option will change its
format to show more details.

.TP
.B \-\-print-json
The JSON strings will be printed while communicating with the controller. This 
option is for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.TP
.B \-\-batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Options Related to Metatypes

.TP
.BI \-\^\-type= TYPENAME
The name of the type.


.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH PROPERTY LIST
Using the \fB\-\-list\-properties\fP and \fB\-\-long\fP command line options a
detailed list of the metatype properties can be printed:

.nf
# \fBs9s metatype --list-properties --type=CmonUser --long\fP
ST NAME               UNIT DESCRIPTION
rw email_address      -    The email address of the user.
rw first_name         -    The first name of the user.
rw groups             -    The list of groups for the user.
rw job_title          -    The job title of the user.
r- last_login         -    The date&time of the last successful login.
 . . .
.fi

The list contains the following fields:
.RS 5
.TP
.B ST 
The short status information, where at the first character position 'r' stands 
for 'readable' and '-' shows that the property is not readable by the client
program. At the second character position 'w' stands for 'writable' and '-' 
shows that the property is not writable by the client.
.TP
.B NAME
The name of the property.
.TP
.B UNIT
The unit in which the given property is measured (e.g. 'byte'). This field shows
a single '-' character if the unit is not applicable.
.TP 
.B DESCRIPTION
The short human readable description of the property.
.RE

.\" 
.\" The examples. The are very helpful for people just started to use the
.\" application.
.\" 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
List the metatypes the controller supports.

.nf
# \fBs9s metatype --list\fR
.fi

List a detailed list of the properties the \fBCmonUser\fR type has.

.nf
# \fBs9s metatype \\
    --list-properties \\
    --type=CmonUser \\
    --long\fR
.fi
