.TH S9S-USER 1 "August 21, 2017"

.SH NAME
s9s-user \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-cluster
.RI [OPTION]...
.RI [USERNAME]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B \-\^\-create
Creates a new account on the cluster. Please note, the account is an account of
the cluster and not a user of the Cmon system.

.TP
.B \-L, \-\^\-list
Lists the accounts on the cluster.

.\"
.\" The generic options that are supported by all the modes.
.\"
.SS Generic Options

.TP
.B \-\^\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-\^\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\^\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\^\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " [\fIPROT\fP://]\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" [\fIPROT\fP://]\\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname (e.g. --controller="https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.B \-l, \-\^\-long
This option is similar to the -l option for the standard ls UNIX utility
program. If the program creates a list of objects this option will change its
format to show more details.

.TP
.B \-\^\-print-json
The JSON strings will be printed while communicating with the controller. This 
option is for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.TP
.B \-\^\-batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B \-\^\-no\-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.\"
.\" The options about the account. 
.\"
.SS Account Options

.TP
.BI \-\^\-account= USERNAME[:PASSWORD][@HOSTNAME]
The account to be used or created on the cluster. The command line option
argument may contain a username, a password for the user and a hostname
identifying the host from where the user may log in.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-with-database
Create a database for the new account while creating a new user account on the 
cluster. The name of the database will be the same as the name of the account
and all access rights will be granted for the account to use the database.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-privileges= EXPRESSION
Privileges to be granted to a user account on the server. The privileges are
specified using a simple language that is interpreted by the Cmon Controller. 
The language is specified as follows:

.nf
.RS
  expression: specification[;...] 
  
  specification: [object[,...]:]privilege[,...]
  
  object: {
      *
    | *.*
    | database_name.*
    | database_name.table_name
    | database_name
  }
.RE
.fi

.RS
Please note that an object name on itself is a database name (and not a table
name) and multiple objects can be enumerated by using the ',' as separator. It
is also important that multiple specifications can be enumerated using the
semicolon as separator.

The expression \fB"MyDb:INSERT,UPDATE;Other:SELECT"\fP for example defines
\fBINSERT\fP and \fBUPDATE\fP privileges on the \fBMyDb\fP database and
\fBSELECT\fP privilege on the \fBOther\fP database. The expression
\fB"INSERT,UPDATE"\fP on the other hand would specify \fBINSERT\fP and
\fBUPDATE\fP privileges on all databases and all tables.

.\"
.\" The environment variables.
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The s9s application will read and consider a number of environment variables.
Please check s9s(1) for more information.

.TP 5
CMON_CLUSTER_ID
The numerical ID of the cluster to control, same as the \fB\-\-cluster\-id\fR
command line option.

.\" 
.\" The examples. The are very helpful for people just started to use the
.\" application.
.\" 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Here is an example showing how to create a new account with a password and a
database on the cluster referenced by the cluster ID:

.nf
# \fBs9s account \\
    --create \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --account="joe:password" \\
    --with-database\fR
.fi

The next example shows how to delete an account from the cluster.

.nf
# \fBs9s account \\
    --delete \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --account="joe"\fR
.fi

Here is how to show a detailed list of accounts that can be find on the
specified cluster:

.nf
# \fBs9s account \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    --cluster-id=1\fR
.fi

Creating an account and granting certain access rights on the specified database
that can be found on the cluster.

.nf
# \fBs9s account \\
    --create \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --account="pipas:password" \\
    --privileges="mydatabase.*:INSERT,UPDATE" \\
    --batch
.fi
