.TH S9S-TREE 1 "January 11, 2019"

.SH NAME
s9s-tree \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-tree
.RI [OPTION]... 
.RI [PATH]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B \-\^\-access 
Check the access rights for the authenticated user to the given CDT entry. This
main option is made to be used in shell scripts, the exit code of the s9s
program shows if the user has the privileges specified in the command line.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --access \\
    --privileges="rwx"
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-add\-acl
Add an ACL entry to an object in the tree. Overwrites the ACL if the given type
of ACL already exists.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --add-acl \\
    --acl="group:users:rw-" \\
    galera_001
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-cat
This option can be used to print the content of a CDT file entry similar way the
cat(1) standard utility is used to print normal files.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --cat \\
    /home/pipas/test.text
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-chown 
Change the ownership of an object. The new owner (and optionally the group
owner) should be passed through the \fB\-\^\-owner\fP command line option.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
mys9s tree \\
    --chown \\
    --owner=admin:admins \\
    --recursive \\
    /tmp
.fi

.TP 
.B \-\^\-delete
Remove CDT entries.

.TP
.B \-\^\-get\-acl
Print the ACL of a CDT entry.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --get-acl \\
    galera_001
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-list
Print the Cmon Directory Tree in list format.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    --recursive \\
    --all \\
    --full-path \\
    /home
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-mkdir
Create a new folder in the tree.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --mkdir \\
    /home/kirk
.fi

.TP 
.B \-\^\-move 
Move an object to a new location in the tree or rename the entry. If the target
contains the "/" character it is assumed to be a directory and the source entry
will be moved to that directory with its name unchanged. If the target contains
no "/" it is assumed to be a new name and the source entry will be renamed while
kept in the same directory.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --move \\
    /groups/tos \\
    TOS
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-remove\-acl
Remove an ACL entry from the ACL of an object.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --remove-acl \\
    --acl="group:users:rw-" \\
    galera_001
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-rmdir
Remove an empty folder from the tree.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --rmdir \\
    /home/pipas/
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-save
Saves data (text) into an existing CDT entry that has the proper type (the type
is file).

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
echo -e "File content...\\nSecond line." | \\
s9s tree --save "/home/pipas/test.txt"
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-touch
Creates a CDT entry that is a file.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --touch \\
    /home/pipas/test.txt
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-tree
Print the tree in its original tree format.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s tree \\
    --tree \\
    --all
.fi

.\"
.\" The generic options that we have in all the modes.
.\"
.SS Generic Options

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " [\fIPROT\fP://]\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" [\fIPROT\fP://]\\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname (e.g. --controller="https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.B \-l, \-\-long
This option is similar to the -l option for the standard ls UNIX utility
program. If the program creates a list of objects this option will change its
format to show more details.

.TP
.B \-\-print-json
The JSON strings will be printed while communicating with the controller. This 
option is for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.TP
.B \-\-batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.TP
.B \-\-only\-ascii
Use only ASCII characters in the output.

.\"
.\" Other options. 
.\"
.SS Other Options

.TP
.BI \-\^\-acl= ACLSTRING
An ACL entry in string format as it is defined in acl(5) "long text format" and
"short text format".

.TP
.BI \-\^\-all
The CDT entries that has a name starting with '.' considered to be hidden
entries. These are only printed if the \fB\-\^\-all\fP command line option is
provided.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-owner= USER[:GROUP]
The user name and group name of the owner.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-recursive
Print also the sub-items of the tree. The \fB\-\^\-chown\fP will change the
ownership for sub-items too. 

Please note that the \fB\-\^\-tree\fP is always recursive, no need for this
command line option there.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-refresh
If this command line option is provided the controller will collect the data, 
refresh the information before sending it back. 

