.TH S9S-MAINTENANCE 1 "August 29, 2016"

.SH NAME
s9s-maintenance \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-maintenance
.RI [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

\"
\"
\"
.TP
.B --create
Create a new maintenance period.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s maintenance \\
    --create \\
    --nodes="192.168.0.244" \\
    --start="2019-10-30T13:48:07.000Z" \\
    --end="2019-10-30T13:48:17.000Z" \\
    --reason="Memory upgrade." 
.fi

.TP
.B --current
Prints the active maintenance for a cluster or for a host. Prints nothing if no
maintenance period is active.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s maintenance --current --cluster-id=1
.fi

.TP
.B --delete
Delete an existing maintenance period. The maintenance periods are identified by
their UUID strings. The UUID stings by default shown in an abbreviated format.
When the \fB\-\-full\-uuid\fP command line option is provided the full length
UUID strings will be shown.

Deleting a maintenance period is also possible by providing only the first few
characters of the UUID when these first characters are unique and enough to
identify the maintenance period.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s maintenance \\
    --delete \\
    --uuid="6b55b1c5-74cb-4c74-ae3d-c41583005b95" \\
    --batch
.fi

.TP
.B -L, --list
List the registered maintenance periods from the ClusterControl controller. 

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s maintenance --list --long
.fi

.TP
.B --next
Prints information about the very next maintenance period for a cluster or for a
host. Prints nothing if no maintenance is registered to be started in the
future.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s maintenance \\
    --next \\
    --cluster-id="1" \\
    --nodes="192.168.0.227" 
.fi

\"
\"
\"
.SS Generic Options

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " [\fIPROT\fP://]\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" [\fIPROT\fP://]\\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname (e.g. --controller="https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.B \-l, \-\-long
This option is similar to the -l option for the standard ls UNIX utility
program. If the program creates a list of objects this option will change its
format to show more details.

.TP
.B --print-json
The JSON strings will be printed while communicating with the controller. This 
option is for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.TP
.B --batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B --no-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.TP
.BR --date-format =\fIFORMATSTRING\fP "]
Set the date and time format for the output of the program. The format string 
is as it is specified for the strftime() standard C library function. 

.TP
.B --full-uuid
Print the full UUID string in the output, do not abbreviate it.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Options Related to the Maintenance

.TP
.BI --begin= DATETIME
A string representation of the date and time when the maintenance period will
start. 

.TP
.BI --nodes= NODE
The node for which the maintenance period will be registered. 

.TP
.BI --start= DATETIME
A string representation of the date and time when the maintenance period will
start. This option is deprecated, please use the \fB--begin\fP option instead.

.TP
.BI --end= DATETIME
A string representation of the date and time when the maintenance period will
end.

.TP
.BI --reason= STRING
A short, human readable string descibing why the maintenance period is created.
This will help the users to understand what happens.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH NODE LIST
Using the \fB\-\-list\fP and \fB\-\-long\fP command line options a detailed list
of the registered maintenance periods can be printed:

.nf
# \fBs9s maint --list --long\fP
ST UUID    OWNER  GROUP  START    END      HOST/CLUSTER  REASON
Ah a7e037a system admins 11:21:24 11:41:24 192.168.1.113 Rolling restart. 
Total: 1

.fi

The list contains the following fields:
.RS 5
.TP
.B ST 
The short status information, where at the first character position 'A' stands 
for 'active' and '-' stands for 'inactive'. At the second character position 'h'
stands for 'host related maintenance' and 'c' stands for 'cluster related
maintenence'.
.TP
.B UUID
The unique string that identifies the maintenance period. Normally only the
first few characters of the UUID is shown, but if the \-\-full\-uuid command
line option is provided the full length string will be printed.
.TP
.B OWNER
The name of the owner of the given maintenance period.
.TP 
.B GROUP
The name of the group owner of the maintenance period.
.TP
.B START
The date and time when the maintenance period starts.
.TP 
.B END
The date and time when the maintenance period expires.
.TP
.B HOST/CLUSTER
The name of the cluster or host under maintenance.
.TP
.B REASON 
A short human readable description showing why the maintenance is required.
.RE

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The s9s application will read and consider a number of environment variables.
Please check s9s(1) for more information.

