.TH S9S-PROCESS 1 "August 29, 2016"

.SH NAME
s9s-node \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-cluster
.RI [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B \-L, \-\-list
List the nodes managed by the controller.

.TP
.B \-\-top
Continue showing the processes that use the most CPU resources in any given
cluster.

.SS Generic Options

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " [\fIPROT\fP://]\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" [\fIPROT\fP://]\\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname (e.g. --controller="https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.B \-\-print-json
The JSON strings will be printed while communicating with the controller. This 
option is for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.TP
.B \-\-batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Cluster Related Options

.TP
.BI \-i " INTEGER" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster-id=" INTEGER
If the operation related to an existing cluster this option can be used to
control which cluster will be manipulated. If the operation creates a new
cluster the cluster ID is assigned automatically, so this option can't be used.

.TP
.BI \-n " NAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster-name=" NAME
Sets the cluster name. If the operation creates a new cluster this will be the
name of the new cluster. (Usage of this option for selecting an existing cluster
is not yet implemented.)

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Process List Related Options

.TP
.BI \-\-update-freq= INTEGER
Update frequency for screen refresh in seconds.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The s9s application will read and consider a number of environment variables.
Please check s9s(1) for more information.

.\" 
.\" The examples. The are very helpful for people just started to use the
.\" application.
.\" 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
List the nodes managed by the controller:

.nf
# \fBs9s process \\
    --top \\
    --cluster-id=1\fR
.fi
