.TH S9S-REPLICATION 1 "August 6, 2019"
.SH NAME
s9s-replication - Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s replication
.RI [OPTION]...

.\"
.\" The main options.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B --failover
Take the role of master from a failed master.

.TP
.B --list
List the replication links.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s replication --list --long
.fi

.TP
.B --promote
Make a slave to become a master.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s replication \\
    --promote \\
    --cluster-name="ft_mysqlreplication_24013" \\
    --slave="192.168.0.164:3306" \\
    --wait 
.fi

.TP
.B --stage
Stage/rebuild a replication slave.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s replication \\
    --stage \\
    --cluster-id="1" \\
    --job-tags="stage" \\
    --slave="192.168.0.83:3306" \\
    --master="192.168.0.76:3306" \\
    --wait 
.fi

.TP
.B --start
Make the slave start replicating previously stopped using the \fB\-\-stop\fR
option.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s replication \\
    --start \\
    --cluster-id="1" \\
    --slave="192.168.0.80:3306" \\
    --wait 
.fi

.TP
.B --stop
Make the slave stop replicating. This option will create a job that does not
stop the server but stops the replication on it.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s replication \\
    --stop \\
    --cluster-id="1" \\
    --slave="192.168.0.80:3306" \\
    --wait 
.fi

.\"
.\" Other options
.\"
.SS Other Options

.\"
.\" The format-string option with the description of the format specifiers.
.\"
.TP
.BI --link-format= FORMATSTRING
This command line option can be used to print specific information about the
replication links. The format string controls the format of the printed 
information about the links.

When this command line option is used the specified information will be printed
instead of the default columns. The format string uses the '%' character to mark
variable fields and flag characters as they are specified in the standard
printf() C library functions. The '%' specifiers are ended by field name letters
to refer to various properties of the replication.

The "%+12p" format string for example has the "+12" flag characters in it with
the standard meaning: the field will be 12 character wide and the "+" or "-"
sign will always be printed with the number. 

The properties of the links are encoded by letters. The in the "%4p" for
example the letter "p" encodes the "slave port" field, so the port number of the
slave node will be substituted.

Standard '\\' notation is also available, \\n for example encodes a new-line 
character.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s replication \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    --link-format="%16h %4p <- %H %2P %o %O\\n"
.fi

The s9s-tools support the following fields:

.RS 7
.TP 
.B c
The cluster ID of the cluster where the slave node can be found.

.TP
.B C
The master cluster ID property of the slave host. This shows in which cluster
the master of the represented replication link can be found.

.TP
.B d
This format specifier denotes the "seconds behind the master" property of the
slave.

.TP
.B h
The host name of the slave node in the link.

.TP
.B H
The host name of the master node in the link.

.TP
.B o
The position of the slave in the replication log.

.TP 
.B O 
The position of the master in the replication log.

.TP
.B p
The port number of the slave.

.TP 
.B P
The port number of the master node.

.TP
.B s
A short string representing the link status, e.g. "Online" when everything is
ok.

.TP
.B m
A slightly longer, human readable string representing the state of the link.
This is actually the "slave_io_state" property of the slave node.

.RE

.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BI --master= NODE
The replication master.

.TP
.BI --backup-id= ID
The ID of the backup to be used for replica rebuild.

.TP
.B --refresh
Force bypass the cluster info cache and retrieve live data directly from the
controller. This option is useful when immediate, up-to-date information is
required, particularly after cluster changes. Without this flag, the command
may use cached data that is periodically refreshed.

.TP
.BI --remote-cluster-id= ID
Remote cluster ID for the c2c replication.

.TP
.BI --replication-master= NODE
This is the same as the \fB\-\-master\fR option.

.TP
.BI --slave= NODE
The replication slave.

.TP
.BI --replication-slave= NODE
This is the same as the \fB\-\-slave\fR option.

.TP
.BI --fail-stop-slave
When this option is specified slave node will be stopped 
