.TH S9S-CONTROLLER 1 "March 21, 2019"

.SH NAME
s9s-controller \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-container
.RI [OPTION]... 

.SH DESCRIPTION
The Cmon HA can be set up using the following simple steps:

.TP
.B 1)
Install a Cmon Controller together with the Cmon Database serving as a 
permanent storage for the controller. The Cmon HA will not replicate the Cmon
Database, so it has to be accessible from all the controllers and if necessary
it has to provide redundancy on itself.

.TP 
.B 2)
Enable the Cmon HA subsystem using the \fB\-\^\-enable\-cmon\-ha\fP on the
running controller. This will create one \fBCmonController\fP class object.
Check the object using the \fB\-\^\-list\fP or \fB\-\^\-stat\fP option.

The Cmon HA is now enabled, but there is no redundancy, only one controller is
running. The one existing controller in this stage should be a leader although
there are no followers.

.TP
.B 3)
Install additional Cmon Controllers one by one and start them the usual way. The
next controllers should use the Cmon Database, should have the same
configuration files.

When the additional controllers are started they will find the leader in the
Cmon Database and will ask the leader to let them join. When the join is
successful one more \fBCmonController\fP will be created for every joining
controller.

\"
\"
\"
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B --create-snapshot
Creates job that will create a controller to controller snapshot of the Cmon HA
subsystem. 

Creating a snaphot manually using this command line option is not necessary for
the Cmon HA to operate, this command line option is made for testing and
repairing.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s controller \\
    --create-snapshot \\
    --log
.fi

.TP
.B --enable-cmon-ha
Enabled the Cmon HA subsystem. By default Cmon HA is not enabled for
compatibility reasons, so this command line option is implemented to enable the
controller to controller communication.

When the Cmon HA is enabled CmonController class objects will be created and
used to implement the high availability features (e.g. the leader election). So
if the controller at least one CmonController object, the Cmon HA is enabled, if
not, it is not enabled.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s controller \\
    --enable-cmon-ha
.fi

The command line option itself is only a syntactic sugar to save a "true"
boolean value into a CDT entry, so for example the following command can also be
used:

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
echo "true" | \\
    s9s tree \\
        --save \\
        --cmon-user=system \\
        --password=secret \\
        --controller="https://10.10.1.23:9501" \\
        --batch \\
        /.runtime/cmon_ha/enabled
.fi

.TP
.B --get-ldap-config
Gets the LDAP configuration from the controller and prints it to the standard
output.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s controller \\
    --cmon-user="system" \\
    --password="XXXXXXX" \\
    --get-ldap-config \\
    --print-json 
.fi

.TP
.B --get-cluster-info-cache-statistics
Gets performance statistics about the cluster information cache from the 
controller. The cache is used to improve response times for cluster information 
requests by maintaining pre-computed, security-filtered cluster data per user.

Returns cache metrics including cache size, hit/miss counts, refresh statistics,
and performance timings useful for monitoring and tuning.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s controller \\
    --cmon-user="system" \\
    --password="XXXXXXX" \\
    --get-cluster-info-cache-statistics \\
    --print-json
.fi

.TP
.B --list
Lists the CmonController type objects known to the controller. If the Cmon HA is
not enabled there will be no such objects, if it is enabled one or more
controllers will be listed.

With the \fB\-\^\-long\fP option a more detailed list will be shown where the
state of the controllers can be checked.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s controller \\
    --list \\
    --long
.fi

.TP
.B --ping
Sends a ping request to the controller and prints the information received. 

Please note that there is an other ping request for the clusters, but this ping
request is quite different from that. This request does not need a cluster, it
is never redirected (follower controllers will also reply to this request) and
it is eplied with some basic information about the Cmon HA subsystem.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s controller \\
    --ping \\
    --print-json \\
    --json-format='status: ${controller_status}\\n'
.fi

.TP
.B --stat
Prints more details about the controller objects.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s controller \\
    --stat
.fi
