.TH S9S-NODE 1 "May 29, 2017"

.SH NAME
s9s script \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s script
.R [OPTION]... [FILENAME]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B \-\-execute
Execute a CJS script from a local file.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s script \\
    --execute \\
    --cmon-user=system \\
    --password=p \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    imperative_001.js
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-system
This option will create a new job to execute a shell command or an entire shell
script on the nodes of the cluster showing the output of the command as job
messages.

If the \fB\-\^\-shell\-command\fP command line option is provided the option
argument will be executed. If a file name is provided as command line argument
that content of the file will be executed as shell script. If neither found in
thecommand line the \fBs9s\fP will read its standard input and execute the lines
found as shell script on the nodes (this is the way to implement self contained
remote executed shell scripts using a shebang).

Please note that this will be a job and it can be blocked by other jobs running
on the same cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s script \\
    --system \\
    --log \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --shell-command="df -h"
.fi

The command/script will be executed using the pre-configured OS user of the
cluster. If that user has no superuser privileges the sudo(1) utility can be
used in the command or the script to gain superuser privileges.

By default the command/script will be executed on all nodes, all members of the
cluster except the controller. This can be changed by providing a node list
using the \fB\-\^\-nodes=\fP command line option.

To execute shell commands the authenticated user has to have execute privileges
on the nodes. If the execute privilege is not granted the credentials of an
other Cmon User can be passed in the command line or the privileges can be
changed (see s9s-tree(1) for details about owners, privileges and ACLs). 

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s script \\
    --system \\
    --cmon-user=system \\
    --password=mysecret \\
    --log \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --timeout=2 \\
    --nodes='192.168.0.127;192.168.0.44' \\
    --shell-command="df -h" 
.fi

Please note that the job will by default has a 10 seconds timeout, so if the
command/script keeps running the job will be failed and the execution of
the command(s) aborted. The timeout value can be set using the 
\fB\-\^\-timeout\fP command line option.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s script \\
    --system \\
    --log \\
    --log-format="%M\\n" \\
    --timeout=20 \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    test_script.sh
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-tree
Print the names of the CJS scripts stored on the controller in tree format.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s script \\
    --tree \\
    --cluster-id=1
.fi

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Generic Options

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " [\fIPROT\fP://]\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" [\fIPROT\fP://]\\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname (e.g. --controller="https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.B --print-json
The JSON strings will be printed while communicating with the controller. This 
option is for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.TP
.B \-\-batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Cluster Related Options

.TP
.BI \-i " INTEGER" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster\-id=" INTEGER
Controls which cluster to check.

.TP
.BI \-n " NAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster-name=" NAME
Controls which cluster to work on.

