.TH S9S-BACKUP 1 "December 12, 2017"

.SH NAME
s9s-backup \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-backup
.RI [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS

.\"
.\" Main Option
.\"
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B \-\^\-create
Creates a new backup. This command line option will initiate a new job that will
create a new backup.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --create \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --nodes=192.168.0.209 \\
    --backup-dir=/tmp \\
    --wait
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-delete
Delete an existing backup.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --delete \\
    --backup-id=1
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-delete\-old
Delete old backups (AKA backup-retention). This command line option will
initiate a job that checks for expired backups and removes them from the system.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --delete-old \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --backup-retention=7 \\
    --safety-copies=3 \\
    --log
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-list\-databases
List the backups in database view format. This format is designed to show the
archived databases in the backups.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --list-databases \\
    --long \\
    -h
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-list\-files
List the backups in file view format. This format is designed to show the
archive files of the backups.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --list-files \\
    --long 
.fi

.TP
.B \-L, \-\^\-list
List the backups known for the controller.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --list \\
    --long
.fi

When listing the backups with the \fB\-\^\-long\fP option the following columns
are listed:

.\"
.\" The list of columns the s9s backup --list --long command will produce.
.\"
.RS 7
.TP
.B ID
The numerical ID of the backup.

.TP 
.B PI
The numerical ID of the parent backup if there is a parent backup for the given
entry.

.TP
.B CID
The numerical ID of the cluster to which the backup belongs.

.TP
.B V
The verification status. Here 'V' means the backup is verified, '-' means the
backup is not verified.

.TP
.B I 
The flag showing if the backup is incremental or not. Here 'F' means the backup
is a full backup, 'I' means the backup is incremental, '-' means the backup
contains no incremental or full backup files (because for example the backup
failed) and 'B' means the backup contains both full and incremental backups
files (which is impossible).

.TP
.B STATE
The state of the backup. Here "COMPLETED" means the backup is completed,
"FAILED" means the backup has failed and "RUNNING" means the backup is being
created.

.TP
.B OWNER
The name of the Cmon user that owns the backup.

.TP
.B HOSTNAME 
The name of the host where the backup was created.

.TP
.B CREATED
The date and time whosing when the backup was created.

.TP
.B SIZE
The total size of the created backup files.

.TP
.B TITLE
The name or title of the backup. This is a human readable string that helps
identify the backup.

.RE
.\"
.\" End of the list.
.\"

.TP
.B \-\^\-restore\-cluster\-info 
Restores the information the controller has about a cluster from a previously 
created archive file.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --restore-cluster-info \\
    --input-file=$HOME/mycluster.tar.gz \\
    --log
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-restore\-controller
Restores the entire controller from a previously created tarball (created by
using the \-\^\-save\-controller option).

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --restore-controller \\
    --input-file=/home/pipas/ft_controllersavelocal_6441.tgz \\
    --debug \\
    --log 
.fi



.TP
.B \-\^\-restore
Restore a backup.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --restore \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --backup-id=10 \\
    --log
.fi


.TP
.B \-\^\-save\-cluster\-info
Saves the information the controller has about one cluster.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --save-cluster-info \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --backup-directory=$HOME/cmon-saved-clusters \\
    --output-file=mycluster.tar.gz \\
    --log
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-save\-controller
Saves the state of the controller into a tarball.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --save-controller \\
    --backup-directory=/home/pipas \\
    --output-file=ft_controllersavelocal_6441.tgz \\
    --log 
.fi

.TP
.B \-\^\-verify
Creates a job to verify a backup. When this main option is used the 
\fB\-\^\-backup\-id\fP option has to be used to identify a backup and the 
\fB\-\^\-test\-server\fP is also necessary to provide a server where the backup
will be tested.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s backup \\
    --verify \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --backup-id=2 \\
    --test-server=192.168.0.65 \\
    --wait 
.fi

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Generic Options

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print even the debug level messages.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-c " [\fIPROT\fP://]\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" [\fIPROT\fP://]\\fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname (e.g. --controller="https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections.

.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cmon\-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-date\-format =\fIFORMATSTRING\fP "]
Set the date and time format for the output of the program. The format string 
is as it is specified for the strftime() standard C library function. 

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-human\-readable
Print the sizes of files in human readable format.

.TP
.B \-l, \-\-long
This option is similar to the -l option for the standard ls UNIX utility
program. If the program creates a list of objects this option will change its
format to show more details.

.TP
.B \-\-print-json
The JSON strings will be printed while communicating with the controller. This 
option is for debugging purposes.

.TP
.BR \-\^\-color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.TP
.B \-\-batch
Print no messages. If the application created a job print only the job ID number
and exit. If the command prints data do not use syntax highlight, headers,
totals, only the pure table to be processed using filters.

.TP
.B \-\-no\-header
Do not print headers for tables.

.\"
.\" Options Related to Newly Created Jobs
.\"
.SS Options Related to Newly Created Jobs
Some operations will start a job on the controller. The following command line
options can be used in relation to these jobs:

.TP
.B \-\-log
If the s9s application created a job and this command line option is provided it
will wait until the job is executed. While waiting the job logs will be shown
unless the silent mode is set.

.TP 
.BI \-\^\-recurrence= CRONTABSTRING
This option can be used to create recurring jobs, jobs that are repeated over
and over again until they are manually deleted. Every time the job is repeated a
new job will be instantiated by copying the original recurring job and starting
the copy. The option argument is a crontab style string defining the recurrence
of the job. 

The crontab string must have exactly five space separated fiels as follows:

.nf
          \fBfield          value
          ------------      ------\fR
          minute            0 - 59
          hour              0 - 23
          day of the month  1 - 31
          month             1 - 12
          day of the week   0 -  7
.fi

All the fields may be a simple expression or a list of simple expression
separated by a comma (,). The simple expression is either a star (*)
representing "all the possible values", an integer number representing the given
minute, hour, day or month (e.g. 5 for the fifth day of the month), or two
numbers separated by a dash representing an interval (e.g. 8-16 representing
every hour from 8 to 16). The simple expression can also define a "step" value,
so for example "*/2" might stand for "every other hour" or "8-16/2" might stand
for "every other hour between 8 and 16.

Please check crontab(5) for more details.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-schedule= DATETIME
The job will not be executed now but it is scheduled to execute later. The
datetime string is sent to the backend, so all the formats are supported that is
supported by the controller.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-timeout= SECONDS
Sets the timeout for the created job. If the execution of the job is not done
before the timeout counted from the start time of the job expires the job will
fail. Some jobs might not support the timeout feature, the controller might 
ignore this value.

.TP
.B \-\-wait
If the application created a job (e.g. to create a new cluster) and this command
line option is provided the s9s program  will wait until the job is executed.
While waiting a progress bar will be shown unless the silent mode is set.


.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Cluster Related Options

.TP
.BI \-i " INTEGER" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster-id=" INTEGER
If the operation related to an existing cluster this option can be used to
control which cluster will be manipulated. If the operation creates a new
cluster the cluster ID is assigned automatically, so this option can't be used.

.TP
.BI \-n " NAME" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-cluster-name=" NAME
Sets the cluster name. If the operation creates a new cluster this will be the
name of the new cluster. (Usage of this option for selecting an existing cluster
is not yet implemented.)

.TP
.BI \-\^\-nodes= NODELIST
The list of nodes or hosts enumerated in a special string using a semicolon as
field separator (e.g. "192.168.1.1;192.168.1.2"). 
The strings in the node list are urls that can have the following protocols:

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS Backup Related Options

.TP
.BI \-\^\-backup\-directory= DIR
Sets where the created archive files are going to be placed.

.\"
.\" The backup format string.
.\"
.TP
.BR \-\^\-backup\-format [ =\fIFORMATSTRING\fP "]
The string that controls the format of the printed information about the
backups.  When this command line option is used the specified information will
be printed instead of the default columns. The format string uses the '%'
character to mark variable fields and flag characters as they are specified in
the standard printf() C library functions. The '%' specifiers are ended by field
name letters to refer to various properties of the backups.

The "%+12I" format string for example has the "+12" flag characters in it with
the standard meaning: the field will be 12 character wide and the "+" or "-"
sign will always be printed with the number. 

The properties of the backup are encoded by letters. The in the "%16H" for
example the letter "H" encodes the "host name". 

Standard '\\' notation is also available, \\n for example encodes a new-line 
character.

The s9s-tools support the following fields:

.RS 7

.TP
.B B
The date and time when the backup creation was beginning. The format used to
print the dates and times can be set using the \fB\-\-date\-format\fP

.TP
.B C
The backup file creation date and time. The format used to print the dates and
times can be set using the \fB\-\-date\-format\fP

.TP
.B d
The names of the databases in a comma seperated string list.

.TP
.B D
The description of the backup. If the "c" modifier is used (e.g. "%cD") the
configured description is shown.

.TP
.B e
The word "ENCRYPTED" or "UNENCRYOTED" depending on the encryption status of the
backup.

.TP
.B E
The date and time when the backup creation was ended. The format used to
print the dates and times can be set using the \fB\-\-date\-format\fP

.TP
.B F
The archive file name.

.TP
.B H
The backup host (the host that created the backup). If the "c" modifier is used
(e.g. "%cH") the configured backup host is shown.

.TP 
.B I
The numerical ID of the backup.

.TP
.B i
The numerical ID of the cluster to which the backup belongs.

.TP 
.B J
The numerical ID of the job that created the backup.

.TP
.B M
The backup method used. If the "c" modifier is used the configured backup method
will be shown.

.TP
.B O
The name of the owner of the backup.

.TP
.B P
The full path of the archive file.

.TP
.B R
The root directory of the backup.

.TP
.B S
The name of the storage host, the host where the backup was stored.

.TP
.B s
The size of the backup file measured in bytes.

.TP
.B t
The title of the backup. The can be added when the backup is created, it helps 
to identify the backup later.

.TP
.B v
The verification status of the backup. Possible values are "Unverified",
"Verified" and "Failed".

.TP
.B %
The percent sign itself. Use two percent signs, "%%" the same way the standard
printf() function interprets it as one percent sign.

.RE

.\"
.\"
.\"
.TP
.BI \-\^\-backup\-method= METHOD
Controls what backup software is going to be used to create the backup. The
Cmon controller currently supports the following methods: ndb, mysqldump, 
xtrabackupfull, xtrabackupincr, mongodump, pg_dump, pg_basebackup, mysqlpump.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-backup\-password= PASSWORD
The password for the SQL account that will create the backup. This command line
option is not mandatory.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-backup\-retention= DAYS
Controls a custom retention period for the backup, otherwise the default global
setting will be used. Specifying a positive number value here can control 
how long (in days) the taken backups will be preserved, -1 has a very special
meaning, it means the backup will be kept forever, while value 0 is the default,
means prefer the global setting (configurable on UI).

.TP
.BI \-\^\-safety\-copies= N
Controls how many safety backups should be kept while deleting old backups. This
command line option can be used together with the \fB\-\^\-delete\-old\fP
option.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-backup\-user= USERNAME
The username for the SQL account that will create the backup.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-encrypt\-backup
When this option is specified clustercontrol will attempt to encrypt the backup
files using AES-256 encryption (the key will be auto-generated if not exists yet
and stored in cluster configuration file).

.TP
.BI \-\^\-full\-path
Print the full path of the files.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-memory= MEGABYTES
Controls how many memory the archiver process should use while restoring an
archive. Currently only the \fBxtrabackup\fP supports this option.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-databases= LIST
A comma separated list of database names. This argument controls which databases
are going to be archived into the backup file. By default all the databases are
going to be archived.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-no\-compression
Do not compress the archive file created by the backup.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-on\-node
Do not copy the created archive file to the controller, store it on the node
where it was created.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-on\-controller
Stream and store the created backup files on the controller.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-parallellism= N
Controls how many threads are used while creating backup. Please note that not
all the backup methods support multi-thread operations.

.TP 
.BI \-\^\-subdirectory= MARKUPSTRING
Sets the name of the subdirectory that holds the newly created backup files.
The command line option argument is considered to be a subpath that may contain
the field specifiers using the usual "%X" format:

.RS 7

.TP
.B B
The date and time when the backup creation was beginning. 

.TP
.B H 
The name of the backup host, the host that created the backup.

.TP
.B i
The numerical ID of the cluster.

.TP
.B I
The numerical ID of the backup.

.TP
.B J
The numerical ID of the job that created the backup.

.TP
.B M 
The backup method (e.g. "mysqldump"). 

.TP
.B O
The name of the user who initiated the backup job.

.TP
.B S
The name of the storage host, the host that stores the backup files.

.TP
.B %
The percent sign itself. Use two percent signs, "%%" the same way the standard
printf() function interprets it as one percent sign.

.RE

.TP
.BI \-\^\-test\-server= HOSTNAME
Use the given server to verify the backup. If this option is provided while
creating a new backup after the backup is created a new job is going to be
created to verify the backup. 

During the verification the SQL software will be installed on the test server
and the backup will be restored on this server. The cerification job will be
successfull if the backup is successfully restored.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-title= STRING
A short human readable string that helps the user to identify the backup later.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-to\-individual\-files
Archive every database into individual files. Currently only the mysqldump
backup method supports this option.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-use\-pigz
Use the pigz program to compress archive.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The s9s application will read and consider a number of environment variables.
Please check s9s(1) for more information.

.\" 
.\" The examples. The are very helpful for people just started to use the
.\" application.
.\" 
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP

Here is an example showing how to create a new backup.

.nf
# \fBs9s backup \\
    --create \\
    --nodes=192.168.1.199 \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --wait\fR
.fi

Another example simply lists the backups:

.nf
# \fBs9s backup \\
    --list \\
    --cluster-id=1 \\
    --long -h\fR
.fi

The next example will create a job to verify the given backup identified by the
backup ID. The job will attempt to install MySql on the test server using the
same settings as for the given cluster, then restore the backup on this test
server. The job is successfull if the backup is succesfully restored on the test
server.

.nf
# \fBs9s backup \\
    --verify \\
    --log \\
    --backup-id=1 \\
    --test-server=192.168.0.55 \\
    --cluster-id=1
.fi
