.TH S9S-REPORT 1 "August 30, 2019"
.SH NAME
s9s-report - Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s report
.RI [OPTION]...

.\"
.\" The main options.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B --cat
Prints the report text to the standard output.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s report \\
    --cat \\
    --report-id=1 \\
    --cluster-id=1
.fi

.TP
.B --create
This command line option can be used to create and print a new report. Please
provide the \fB--type\fP command line option with the report type (that was
chosen from the template list printed with the \fB--list-templates\fP option)
and the \fB--cluster-id\fP with the cluster ID.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s report \\
    --create \\
    --type=testreport \\
    --cluster-id=1
.fi

.TP 
.B --delete
This option can be used to delete a report that already exsist. The report ID
should be used to specify which report to delete.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s report \\
    --delete \\
    --report-id=1
.fi

.TP
.B --list
Lists the reports that already created.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s report \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    --cluster-id=1
.fi

.TP
.B --list-templates
Lists the report templates showing what kind of reports can be created. This
command line option is usually used together with the \fB--long\fP option.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s report \\
    --list-templates \\
    --long
.fi

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SS "Options for Reports"
The following command line options are related to the operational reports.

.TP
.BI --report-id= ID
This command line option passes the numerical ID of the report to manage. When a
report is deleted (\fB--delete\fP option) or printed (\fB--cat\fP option) this
option is mandatory.

.TP
.BI --type= NAME
This command line option controls the type of the report. Use the
\fB--list-templates\fP to list what types are available.



