.TH S9S-WATCHLISTS 1 "april 31, 2025"

.SH NAME
s9s-watchlists\- Command-line client for the Severalnines ClusterControl server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-watchlists
.RI [OPTION]... 
.RI [PATH]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s-watchlists\fP is a command-line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to 
perform create, read, update, delete operations on whatchlists elements stored on database.
Wathclists are used to define visualize content when setting CCV2 on kiosk mode.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what operation
should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the following:

.TP
.B --create
Creates a new watchlist on database. Mandatory fields for watchlist are: name, topic and clusters.
Optional fields are: owner-id, page-by, properties.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s watchlists --create --name="w1" --topics="topic1, topic3" --clusters="11, 12, 15"
OK
.fi

.TP
.B --update
Updates an existing watchlist on DB. Same arguments as '--create' main option also requires '--whatchlist-id'
.nf
s9s watchlists --update --watchlist-id="2" --name="w1" --topics="topic1, topic3" --clusters="20, 12, 15" --grid="2x2" --owner-id=3
watchlist 'w1' updated.
.fi

.TP
.B --list
Gets existing watchlist on DB. When providing '--whatchlist-id' specific watchlist is returned. 
Use 0 or ommit options to get all existing whatchlist. Also admits --name option as filter instead of id.
.nf
s9s watchlists --list --watchlist-id="2" 
ID NAME   CLUSTERS  GRID PAGE_BY OWNER ID TOPICS       
2  testW2 [1, 2, 3] 3x3  cluster 9        [t1, t2, t3] 
.fi

.TP
.B --delete
Deletes existing watchlist on DB. Option '--whatchlist-id' is mandatory.
.nf
s9s watchlists --delete --watchlist-id="2" 
OK
.fi

.\"
.\" Arguments related to create and update operations
.\"
.SS Arguments related to create watchlist.
The 'createWatchlist' or 'updateWatchlist' operations can use following options to define
watchlists fields:

.TP
.B --name
The name asigned by user to watchlist.

.TP
.B --topics
String identifying the themes for the different information types to be visualized.

.TP
.B --clusters
The clusters to be displayed on watchlist.


.TP
.B --page-by
The type of pagination to be used on watchlist.

.TP
.B --grids
The possible layouts to be used on watchlist.

.TP
.B --owner-id
The cmon user ID owner of the watchlist.

.TP
.B --properties
Some string to save watchlist properties.


.TP
.B --use-vendor-api
Lists the available 3 digits versions supported by ClusterControl for a given 
cluster type and vendor by querying vendor's api (if exists). If vendor has no api
field 'use_vendor_api' on reply will be false.
This option must be used in combination with --list-3d.



.\"
.\" Arguments related to list operations
.\"
.TP
.BI \-\^\-watchlist-id=ID
This option can be used on list operations to avoid retrieving all watchlists 
The ID must be positive corresponding to an existing watchlist or zero to get all watchlists.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-name=NAME
This option can be used on list operations to avoid retrieving all watchlists 
The NAME must be correspond to an existing/s watchlist.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s watchlists --list --watchlist-name=testW1

ID NAME   CLUSTERS  GRID PAGE_BY OWNER ID TOPICS       
1  testW1 [4, 6, 8] 2x2  cluster 8        [t1, t2, t3] 
.fi