.TH S9S-EVENT 1 "July 26, 2018"

.SH NAME
s9s-metatype \- Command line client for the Severalnines Clustercontrol server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-metatype
.RI [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what
operation should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the
following:

.TP
.B \-\-help
Print the help message and exist.

.TP
.B \-L, \-\-list
Print the events in real time as they are received from the controller
indefinitely.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s event --list 
.fi

.TP
.B \-\-watch
Open an interactive UI to monitor the events and various objects through the
events.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s event \\
    --watch \\
    --cmon-user=admin \\
    --password=adminpasswd
.fi

.\"
.\" 
.\"
.SS Other Options

.TP
.BI \-\^\-input\-file= FILENAME
Instead of connecting to the controller and monitor what happens read the events
from the file and play it back. The file can be created using the 
\fB\-\^\-output\-file\fP option.
.B EXAMPLE
.nf
event \\
    --watch \\
    --cmon-user system \\
    --password mypassword \\
    --input-file ft_registerpostgresql.json
.fi


.TP
.BI \-\^\-output\-file= FILENAME
The name of the output file where the events will be saved as individual JSON
strings. The JSON strings will be separated by one empty line. The created file
later can be passed to the \fB\-\^\-input\-file\fP option to play back.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
event \\
    --watch \\
    --cmon-user system \\
    --password mypassword \\
    --output-file ft_registerpostgresql.json
.fi


.\"
.\" 
.\"
.SS Options Related to Events
The none of the \fB\-\^\-with\-*\fP command line options is provided all events
will processed (e.g. printed if the \fB\-\^\-list\fP main option is used), it at
least one of these options is in the command line only the events explicitly
enabled will be processed.

.TP
.B --with-event-alarm
Process alarm events.

.TP
.B --with-event-cluster
Process cluster events.

.TP
.B --with-event-debug
Process debug events.

.TP
.B --with-event-file
Process file events.

.TP
.B --with-event-host
Process host events.

.TP
.B --with-event-job
Process job events.

.TP
.B --with-event-log
Process log events.

.TP
.B --with-event-maintenance
Process maintenance events.

.TP
.B --with-no-name-events
Process event with no event name.

.TP
.B --with-created-events
Process events about creation of objects.

.TP
.B --with-destroyed-events
Process events about destructing objects.

.TP
.B --with-changed-events
Process events about changes in objects.

.TP 
.B --with-started-events
Process events about things started.

.TP
.B --with-ended-events
Process events about things ended.

.TP 
.B --with-state-changed-events
Process events about state changes.

.TP
.B --with-user-message-events
Process events about user messages.

.TP
.B --with-log-message-events
Process events about log messages.

.TP
.B --with-measurements-events
Process events about measurements.

