.TH S9S 1 "August 29, 2016"

.SH NAME
s9s \- Command line client for the Severalnines ClusterControl server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s
.RI [COMMAND]
.RI [OPTION]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s\fP  is a command line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to
deploy and operate MySQL, MariaDB, MongoDB and PostgreSQL.

.SH OPTIONS
General options for \fBs9s\fP:

\"
\" --controller
\"
.TP
.BR \-c " \fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-controller=" \fIHOSTNAME\fP[:\fIPORT\fP]
The host name of the Cmon Controller. The protocol and port is also accepted as
part of the hostname. 

The controller host and port can also be set in the s9s configuration file (see
s9s.conf(5) for more information), so this command line option is usually not
needed. 

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s user \\
    --list \\
    --controller="https://localhost:9556"
.fi

\"
\" --help
\"
.TP
.B --help
Print the help message and exit. 

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s user --help
.fi

\"
\" --controller-port=PORT
\"
.TP
.BI \-P " PORT" "\fR,\fP --controller-port=" PORT
The port where the Cmon Controller is waiting for connections. This is just an
other way to set the port on which the s9s program contacts the controller,
other options and configuration file entries may be used instead.

\"
\" --password
\"
.TP
.BI \-p " PASSWORD" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-password=" PASSWORD
The password for the Cmon User (whose user name is set using the 
\fB\-\^\-cmon\-user\fP command line option or using the \fBcmon_user\fP
configuration value). Providing the password is not mandatory, the user
authentication can also be done using a private/public keypair automatically.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s user \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    --cmon-user=system \\
    --password=secret
.fi

\"
\" --private-key-file=FILE
\"
.TP
.BI \-\^\-private\-key\-file= FILE
The path to the private key file that will be used for the authentication. The
default value for the private key is \fB~/.s9s/username.key\fP.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s user \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    --cmon-user=pipas \\
    --private-key-file="/home/pipas/.ssh/id_rsa"
.fi

\"
\" --cmon-user=USER
\"
.TP
.BI \-u " USERNAME" "\fR,\fP --cmon-user=" USERNAME
Sets the name of the Cmon user (the name of the account maintained by the Cmon
Controller) to be used to authenticate. Since most of the functionality needs
authentication this command line option should be very frequently used or set in
the configuration file. Please check the documentation of the s9s.conf(5) to see
how the Cmon User can be set using the \fBcmon_user\fP configuration variable.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s user \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    --cmon-user=system \\
    --password=secret
.fi

\"
\" --verbose
\"
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Print more messages than normally.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s controller \\
    --ping \\
    --verbose
.fi

\"
\" --version
\"
.TP
.B \-V, --version
Print version information and exit.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s --version
.fi

\"
\" The command line options that control how the output will be formatted.
\"
.SH OUTPUT FORMATTING
The following command line options can be used to control how the output of the
s9s program will be formatted.

\"
\" --batch
\"
.TP
.B --batch
Produce "grep friendly" output. Print no messages. If the application created a
job print only the job ID number and exit. If the command prints data do not use
syntax highlight, headers, totals, only the pure table to be processed using
filters.

.B
.nf
s9s user \\
    --list \\
    --long \\
    --batch
.fi

\"
\" --color=WHEN
\"
.TP
.BR --color [ =\fIWHEN\fP "]
Turn on and off the syntax highlighting of the output. The supported values for 
.I WHEN
is
.BR never ", " always ", or " auto .

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The s9s application will read and consider the following environment variables:

.TP 5 
CMON_CONTROLLER
The host name and optionally the port number of the controller that will be
contacted. This also can be set using the \fB\-\-controller\fR command line
option.

.TP 5
CMON_CLUSTER_ID
The numerical ID of the cluster to control, same as the \fB\-\-cluster\-id\fR
command line option.

.TP 5
S9S_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT
The timeout value measured in seconds for the network communication between the
s9s client program and the Cmon Controller. The default value is 10 seconds.
This settings can be also passed using the \fBclient_connection_timeout\fP
variable in the s9s configuration file.


.TP 5
S9S_IGNORE_CONFIG
Do not load any configuration files when the \fBs9s\fR program starts.

.TP 5
S9S_ONLY_ASCII
If this environment variable defined and its value is greater than 0 the program
will print only ASCII characters (no unicode characters will be used). This is
the same as using the \fB\-\-only\-ascii\fR command line option.

.TP 5
S9S_SYSTEM_CONFIG
The full path of the system wide s9s configuration file. The default file is 
"/etc/s9s.conf", this environment variable may overrule it.

.TP 5
S9S_USER_CONFIG
The full path of the user's own s9s configuration file. The default value is 
"~/.s9s/s9s.conf", this environment variable may overrule it.

.TP 5
S9S_VERBOSE
If this environment variable defined and its value is greater than 0 the program
will be in verbose mode (same as the the \fB\-\-verbose\fR command line option)
and print more messages.

.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
List the clusters and the nodes managed by the controller:

.RS
# s9s cluster --list --controller=https://localhost:9556 --color=always

# s9s node --list --long --controller=https://localhost:9556
.RE


Get the job list for the specified cluster maintained by the specified
controller:
.RS

# s9s job --list --cluster-id=1  --controller=https://localhost:9556
.RE
