.TH S9S-DBVERSIONS 1 "December 19, 2023"

.SH NAME
s9s-dbversions \- Command-line client for the Severalnines ClusterControl server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s9s-dbversions
.RI [OPTION]... 
.RI [PATH]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBs9s-dbversions\fP is a command-line tool for ClusterControl, which can be used to 
obtain database versions of the different clusters supported by ClusterControl.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Main Option"
The application should always be started using a main option that sets what operation
should be performed. This "main option" should be one of the following:

.TP
.B --cluster-types
Gets the list of supported cluster types.
Returned values can be used as an argument to the --cluster-type option (upper or lower case).

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s dbversions --cluster-types                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CLUS-3235 ✗
MYSQLCLUSTER
REPLICATION
MYSQL_SINGLE
MONGODB
POSTGRESQL_SINGLE
GROUP_REPL
REDIS
MSSQL_SINGLE
MSSQL_AO_ASYNC
MSSQL_AO_SYNC
ELASTIC
GALERA
.fi

.TP
.B --vendors
Gets the list of supported vendors on all supported clusters.
If no version is retrieved for a specific cluster type-vendor, it means that it is not supported.


.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s dbversions --vendors                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CLUS-3235 ✗
percona
mariadb
oracle
codership
10gen
mongodbenterprise
microsoft
elasticsearch
redis
postgresql
enterprisedb
.fi

.TP
.B --list-versions
Lists the available 1 or 2 digits versions supported by ClusterControl for a given 
cluster type and vendor.

.TP
.B --list-3d-versions
Lists the available 3 digits versions supported by ClusterControl for a given 
cluster type and vendor (if supported). If not, a bad request will be returned.

.B EXAMPLE
.nf
s9s dbversions --list-versions --cluster-type galera --vendor mariadb
10.4
10.5
10.6
10.7
10.8
10.9
10.10
10.11
.fi

The list will contain the available 3-digit versions separated by a newline character.

.\"
.\" Arguments related to list-versions operations
.\"
.SS Arguments related to list versions operations
The list operations: 'getDbVersions' (--list-versions) and 'getDb3dVersions' (--list-3d-versions)
can be used to get the list of available versions and they need the following arguments:

.TP
.BI \-\^\-cluster-type=CLUSTER_TYPE_NAME 
This option must be used on get versions operations. 
The possible values to use are returned by the --cluster-types operation (in upper or lower case).

.TP
.BI \-\^\-vendor=VENDOR_NAME
This option must be used on get versions operations. 
The possible values to use are returned by the --vendors main operation (lower case only).
