.TH S9S.CONF 5 "October 03, 2016"
.SH NAME
s9s.conf \- configuration file for the s9s command line tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/s9s/s9s.conf

.B /etc/s9s.conf

.SH INTRODUCTION
The following lines show a minimalistic configuration file that can be used as a
template to create one's first configuration file:
.nf

.RS
[global]
controller = https://192.168.1.200:9556
cmon_user  = pipas
.RE

.fi
This simple example configuration shows the most important elements one need to
use the s9s command line tool:

.TP
.B PROTOCOL
The configuration has a value for the \fBcontroller\fP and it is defined using
the https:// protocol. This means the communication between the command line
tool and the Cmon Controller will be implemented through an encrypted channel.
Currently this is the only way the s9s command line tool and the controller can
communicate, so using the https:// prefix is very important.

.TP 
.B HOSTNAME:PORT
The IP address and the port number. These are used to define where the
controller is waiting for the requests the usual ways.

.TP
.B USERNAME
Then the \fBcmon_user\fP is defined. This is the username for the account
maintained by the controller to be used while sending requests from the command
line tool. The authetication will be done using a public and a private key pair
that is by default stored in the ~/.s9s/ directory under the Cmon User's
username (e.g ~/.s9s/pipas.pub and ~/.s9s/pipas.key in this case). 


.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fBbackup_directory\fP 
The directory where the created backup files will be placed on the target host.
If this value is not specified the cluster configuration \fBBACKUPDIR\fP is
going to be used. If the cluster has no configuration either the backup will
fail.

.TP
\fBbackup_method\fP 
Defines what software will be used to create the backup. Valid values are 
\fBauto\fP, \fBmysqldump\fP, \fBxtrabackup\fP... well, I am not sure...

.TP
\fBbrief_job_log_format\fP
The format string that controls the printed log messages when not using the long
format (when the \fB\-\-long\fP command line option is not used). The value of
this variable is interpreted the same way the value for the 
\fB\-\-log\-format\fP option is interpreted. Please find the documentation in
\fBs9s-job(1)\fP.

.B EXAMPLE:
brief_job_log_format = "%32B:%-5L: %-7S %M\\n"

.TP
\fBcolor\fP
Controls if the syntax highlight will be used on the output, Same as the
\fB\-\^\-color=\fP command line option. Valid values are \fBalways\fP,
\fBnever\fP and \fBauto\fP.

.TP
\fBcontroller\fP 
An URL that is defining the controller, the protocol, the host name, and the
port (e.g. "https://127.0.0.1:9556").

.TP
\fBcontroller_host_name\fP 
The host name of the Cmon controller.

.TP
\fBcontroller_protocol\fP 
Something like "http" or "https".

.TP
\fBcontroller_port\fP 
The port where the controller is accepting requests.

.TP
\fBdate_format\fP 
The format of the printed date and time values as it is specified in the
documentation of the standard strftime() function.

.B EXAMPLE:
date_format="%s"

.TP
\fBdefault_cluster_id\fP 
The cluster ID that will be used when no cluster ID is provided in the command
line (\fB--cluster-id\fP command line option).

.TP
\fBlong_backup_format\fP
The format string that controls the printed information about the nodes when
the \fB\-\-list\fP and \fB\-\-long\fP command line options are used. The value
of this variable is interpreted the same way the value for the
\fB\-\-node\-format\fP option is interpreted. Please find the documentation
in \fBs9s-node(1)\fP.

.TP
\fBlong_cluster_format\fP
The format string that controls the printed information about the clusters when
the \fB\-\-list\fP and \fB\-\-long\fP command line options are used. The value
of this variable is interpreted the same way the value for the
\fB\-\-cluster\-format\fP option is interpreted. Please find the documentation
in \fBs9s-cluster(1)\fP.

.TP
\fBlong_node_format\fP
The format string that controls the printed information about the nodes when
the \fB\-\-list\fP and \fB\-\-long\fP command line options are used. The value
of this variable is interpreted the same way the value for the
\fB\-\-node\-format\fP option is interpreted. Please find the documentation
in \fBs9s-node(1)\fP.

.TP
\fBlong_job_log_format\fP
The format string that controls the printed log messages when using the long
format (when the \fB\-\-long\fP command line option is used). The value of
this variable is interpreted the same way the value for the 
\fB\-\-log\-format\fP option is interpreted. Please find the documentation in
\fBs9s-job(1)\fP.

.TP
\fBonly_ascii\fP
Use only ASCII characters when printing lists, graphs, trees, no Unicode
characters of any kind.

.B EXAMPLE:
only_ascii = true

.TP
\fBos_user\fP 
The name of the user that will be used when authenticating on the nodes with
SSH.

.TP
\fBos_key_file\fP 
The file (on the controller) that will be used as SSH key while authenticating
on the nodes with SSH.

.TP
\fBprovider_version\fP
The version of the SQL software that will be installed when no value is set by
the \fB--provider-version\fP command line option.

.TP
\fBcmon_user\fP
The Cmon user name used to authenticate the user on the Cmon system and 
identify the owner of the objects the user creates (e.g. owner of the cluster).
This value can also be set using the \fB--cmon-user\fP command line option.

.TP
\fBvendor\fP 
Database software vendor name to be used when installing new clusters.

